# python-api-challenge
Python API Project

This repository contains the code for analyzing weather and planning a vacation based on the weather conditions. It uses OpenWeatherMap API to retrieve weather information, Google Places API to find hotels, and gmaps to display a visual representation of the results on a map. The code is written using the pandas library and matplotlib library for plotting charts. The code is written in a Jupyter Notebook.

The project is broken down into two sections, WeatherPy and VacationPy.

WeatherPy:
WeatherPy will retrieve and analyze the weather multiple cities. The cities are randomly generated by the code. Approximatly 500-600 cities are generated.
The list of cities generated is then used to call the  OpenWeatherMap API to retireve the necessary data for analysis. A log of the cities being called will be generated in the notebook. The code then creates the following scatter plots for analysis:
    - Temperature (F) vs. Latitude
    - Humidity (%) vs. Latitude
    - Cloudiness (%) vs. Latitude
    - Wind Speed (mph) vs. Latitude
The code then looks at regression line trends to make comparisons between the Northern and Southern Hemispheres of the following scatter plots:
    - Northern Hemisphere - Temperature (F) vs. Latitude
    - Southern Hemisphere - Temperature (F) vs. Latitude
    - Northern Hemisphere - Humidity (%) vs. Latitude
    - Southern Hemisphere - Humidity (%) vs. Latitude
    - Northern Hemisphere - Cloudiness (%) vs. Latitude
    - Southern Hemisphere - Cloudiness (%) vs. Latitude
    - Northern Hemisphere - Wind Speed (mph) vs. Latitude
    - Southern Hemisphere - Wind Speed (mph) vs. Latitude
The code will export the tempertature data retreived in a csv file for future analysis. The plot images generated in the notebook are in the repository.
The notebook concludes with an analysis of observable trends found in the plots.

VacationPy:
VacationPy find hotels based on weather preferences for the cities generated in WeatherPy. The code will first display a heat map of the humidity for all the cities analyzed in WeatherPy. The list of cities is then narrowed down to desireable vacation locations based on the following weather conditions:
    - Temperature between 70-80 degrees F
    - Wind speed < 10 mph
    - 0 cloudiness
The Google Places API is called to find a hotel within 5000 meters of these locations. The hotels are pinned on the map. A screenshot of the map is included in the repository.
